I get questions about why the total
number of viewers per video has been
declining across the board within the
digital vegan demi-monde and I think
that is basically just because YouTube
has been doing a better job of more and
more accurately measuring the number of
real subscribers we have and the number
of real viewers we have this brings to
my mind another interesting question
though which is to what extent are we as
youtubers challenging our audience um I
said to DOM Bauer recently he had a
video on a challenging topic and I
pointed out to him I said look Dom I'm
happy for you that you have an audience
that likes you blah blah blah but if
this video were on my channel on the
same challenging topic I would have at
least fifty percent thumbs down to fifty
percent thumbs up um and that's because
on my channel people hear this message
who don't want to hear it that's a
beautiful thing and a Dom you know he
was just joking around a biro back he
said so what you're saying my channel
would be more successful if I got more
thumbs down for video yeah I am you know
I think there's something much more
important than the number of viewers you
have for video or the number of
subscribers you have both of which in
some ways are kind of their measurements
of success that are more seeming than
real if I make a video as I've made many
on a really a topic that's challenging
it edgy with in veganism like I made a
two minute video that really questions
the morality of animal sanctuaries and
whether or not they are fundamentally
different from petting zoos I love that
video I love that video because in just
two minutes I feel it manages to get
across a fundamental point that in other
videos I probably talk about for an hour
and not everyone gets the point and that
video has way more thumbs down then
thumbs up but that's that's what we're
here to do right if I'm only preaching
to the converted if I'm only talking to
people who already agree with me if I'm
only reaching an audience that's already
comfortable
with my view on animal sanctuaries what
am I even talking for you know you know
and now most people ask that question
they say well why talk about veganism if
your audience only consists of vegans
but for me I think there are so many
really important questions and debates
going on within veganism that we must
and we should engage in you know in a
hopefully in an entertaining and
enlightening and fun way but definitely
in a way that challenges people's
people's expectations and you know
whether it's talking about vivisection
or you know wild animals or hunting or
you know any of the weird gray areas
we've gotten into on this channel I mean
I've really directly challenged vegans
how can you wear a t-shirt and as a
picture of a pig and a picture of a dog
and asks how do you love one and kill
the other speciesism I've seen this
t-shirt you've probably seen the graphic
on the internet and other formats other
than t-shirt you wear that and then you
go to a pet food store and you buy a
dead cow in a metal can to feed to your
cat so I can do the same guy can have
the cow when I can have the cat why do
you love one and kill the other this is
still speciesism but this is speciesism
that exists within the vegan movement
that we you know we're closing one eye
to when I talk about those issues it's
not a bad thing that I get thumbs down
it's a wonderful thing because that
means I'm reaching the audience that
needs to hear it the audience that needs
to hear it by definition is not the
audience that wants to hear it